---
author: Jessica Xu
layout: post-full
title: Zoomable Pack Layout
featimg: ethnicity_preview.png
type: visualization
tags: [d3, visualization] 
category: [visualization]
vizlink: ethnicities.html
---
Looking at survey results of self identification of individuals, I took the ethnicity that had the largest frequency and looked at all the answers that also included this ethnicity and attempted to make subgroups of those that included this ethnicity. Then removing all of those, I looked at the next most frequently appearing race and again attempted to find subgroups of those answers left remaining. The size of the circle corresponds to the frequency in which the answers appeared. 

The circles that are white represent the answers and their frequency. I grouped some answers together that shared common phrases or races/ethnicities together into some groups. 

1. In the order of:


    Middle Eastern, American, Italian, Irish, Jewish, Portuguese, German, South Asian


    These were the ones that most frequently appeared. First I found the most frequent race/ethnicity, and then grouped all of them together to create one hierarchical group.

2. For each of the most frequently appearing races, I created a circle that had those who said that race alone and a group in which includes all the other races that appeared alongside it and if there was another visible frequent word within it, I made another group. 

3. Then looking at the remaining answers not including the most frequent word, I started the process over again looking at the next most frequently occurring word. 


<br>


{% highlight python %}
"""
collapse_freq --> the number of subdivisions for each race/ethnicity 
collapse_non_freq --> the number of divisions of the entire data 
start_dict --> the data dictionary with keys as responses and values as frequencies 
frequencies --> a sorted list of most frequently appearing races/ehtnicities

Returns a dictionary put in a specific format to work with the D3 javascript code.
"""
def collapse(collapse_freq, collapse_non_freq, start_dict, frequencies):

    data_dict = {}
    data_dict["name"] = "DATA"
    data_dict["children"] = [] 
    key = frequencies[0][0]
    wo = start_dict
    not_freq = [["dummy"]]
    not_freq[0][0] = key
    counter_1 = collapse_non_freq

    while counter_1 > 0:
        counter_1 = collapse_non_freq
        outer_dict = {}
        outer_dict["name"] = not_freq[0][0]
        outer_dict["children"] = []
        w, wo, freq, not_freq, total = find(wo, not_freq[0][0])

        if total > 0:
            data_dict["children"].append({"name": outer_dict["name"], "size": total})
        
        if freq == []:
            break
        temp_key = freq[0][0]
        temp_dict = w

        counter_2 = collapse_freq

        while counter_2 > 0:
            inner_dict = {}
            inner_dict["name"] = temp_key
            inner_list = []

            w2, wo2, freq2, not_freq2, total2 = find(temp_dict, temp_key)
            
            if freq2 == []:
                for f in freq:
                    outer_dict["children"].append({"name": f[0], "size": f[1]})
                if counter_2 == 1:
                    for f in not_freq2:
                        outer_dict["children"].append({"name": f[0], "size": f[1]})
                break

            for f in freq2:
                inner_list.append({"name": f[0], "size": f[1]})

            inner_dict["children"] = inner_list
            outer_dict["children"].append(inner_dict)
            
            temp_key = freq2[0][0]
            temp_dict = w2

            counter_2 -= 1
        counter_1 -= 1

        data_dict["children"].append(outer_dict)

    all_single_data = []
    for d in data_dict["children"]:
        all_single_data.append(d["name"])
    for m in most_common_freqs:
        if m[0] not in all_single_data:
            data_dict["children"].append({"name": m[0], "size": m[1]})

    return data_dict


data = collapse(4, 8, new_data3, sorted_frequencies)


{% endhighlight %}

<br>

Link to formatted JSON data: [pack layout data](/json/ethnicity_data.json)

Link to organized survey data set: [survey data](/json/survey_data.json)












